# Data Management System for Resin Bioeconomy

## Description
This project aims to implement a Data Management System (DMS) to analyze the bioeconomy of resin in Portuguese Pinus Pinaster forests. The system uses data on forest area, extraction costs, environmental impact, labor and resin production to provide insights into the resin industry.

## Project Structure
- source_data/: Contains the CSV files downloaded from INE
- sql_scrits/: Creation and implementation of the data (sql scripts)
- data_use_scripts/: SQL scripts for data analysis.
- processdata/: Contains a code in py, to clean the data generated by artificial intelligence, the data coming from INE was cleaned from openrefine.

## Configuration and Use
1. import the original data into the database using the script in `sql_scrits/CreateandImpData.sql`.
2. Run the analyses using the script in `data_use_scripts/dataanalysis.sql`.

## Analyses Performed
The system answers the following questions:
1. Total resin production by region and relation to forest area.
2. Resin production efficiency per worker.
3. Extraction and production costs by region.
4. CO2 avoided by region.
5. Relation between number of workers and resin production.
6. Cost-benefit ratio of resin production.
7. Comparison of euros and kg.
8. Relationship between forest area and production efficiency.
9. Expansion potential (considering forest area and current efficiency).
10. Relationship between environmental impact and scale of production.

## Requirements
- MySQL or MariaDB
- Read/write access to the database
